Update OS_PATCHING.MD - add information about patching Ubuntu (#1662)
epiphany-platform/epiphany: docs/home/howto/OS_PATCHING.md

# Patching OS with running Epiphany components

> This guide describes steps you have to perform to patch RHEL and Ubuntu systems in a way to don't interrupt working Epiphany components.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide describes steps you have to perform to patch RHEL and Ubuntu operating systems to not to interrupt working Epiphany components.
```

### Disclaimer

> We provide a recommended way to patch your RHEL and Ubuntu systems. Before proceeding with patching the production environment we highly recommend patching your test cluster first.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We provide a recommended way to patch your RHEL and Ubuntu operating systems. Before proceeding with patching the production environment we strongly recommend patching your test cluster first.  
```

This document will help you decide how you should patch your OS. This is not a step-by-step guide.

### Requirements

- The fresh, actual backup containing your all important data
- Enabled official repository

> - Disabled Epiphany-provided repository

Reviewer 2: Is anything required from user to enable/disable repositories? I see that this part is described below, but it's nice to have at least a reference here.

Author: No, it's not. Actually this is the default state after successful epi cluster deployment. I put this on top as requirements because it's quite important to not break the environment e.g. by accidentally upgrading epi components.

Reviewer 2: But may be user needs to know that `this is the default state after successful epi cluster deployment`? I read this and the first thought that comes - check if requirements are met. But there is nothing more.

> - Disabled Epiphany-provided repository

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Disabled Epiphany-provided repository (Actually this is default state after successful Epiphany cluster deployment. It's important not to change this before patching to not break the environment e.g. by accidentally upgrading Epiphany components.)
```

> ### Table of contents

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Table of contents
```

Azure has `Update Management` solution in `Azure Automation`. It gives you visibility into update compliance across Azure and other clouds, and on-premises. The feature allows you to create scheduled deployments that orchestrate the installation of updates within a defined maintenance window.  
To manage updates that way please refer to [official documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/automation/update-management/update-mgmt-manage-updates-for-vm).

> ## Patching with Package Manager

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Patching with OS specific package manager
```

The following commands can be executed in both clustered and non-clustered environments. In case of patching non-clustered environment, you have to schedule a maintenance window due to the required reboot after kernel patching.  

Note: Some of the particular patches may also require a system reboot.

If your environment is clustered then hosts should be patched one by one. Before proceeding with the next host be sure that the patched host is up and all its components are running.  
For information how to check state of specific Epiphany components, see [here](./MAINTENANCE.md).

### RHEL

Verify if *epirepo* is disabled and *official repositories* are enabled:  

> `yum repolist all`

Reviewer: @rafzei is that possible to attach example output for user to compare?

Verify your current Linux kernel version:  

> `sudo uname -r`

Reviewer: Hmmmm .. let's say I have version 1.2.3 ... what did I just verified? Is that good? Is that bad? What versions are OK?

List installed security patches:  
`yum updateinfo list security installed`

List available patches without installing them:  
`yum updateinfo list security available`

Grab more details about available patches:  

> `yum updateinfo info security available` or specify patch: `yum updateinfo info security <patch_name>`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`yum updateinfo info security available` or specific patch: `yum updateinfo info security <patch_name>`
```

## Additional information

Red Hat provides notifications about security flaws that affect its products in the form of security advisories. For more information, see [here](https://access.redhat.com/security/updates/advisory).

### Ubuntu

For automated security patches Ubuntu uses unattended-upgrade facility. By default it runs every day. To verify it on your system, execute:  
`dpkg --list unattended-upgrades`
`cat /etc/apt/apt.conf.d/20auto-upgrades | grep Unattended-Upgrade`

> For information how to change Unattended-Upgrade configuration, see [here](https://github.com/mvo5/unattended-upgrades/blob/master/README.md).

Reviewer: Hmmmm ... I would rather reference some official documentation in our official documentation if that is possible, but that is rather minor issue.

The following steps will allow you to perform an upgrade manually.  

Update your local repository cache:  
`sudo apt update`

> Verify if epirepo is disabled and official repositories are enabled:  

Reviewer: @rafzei is that possible to attach example output for user to compare?

Author: The output is quite big so I wouldn't put this in the documentation. Second thing is that users can disable some repositories and leave e.g. only security-related so It's hard to compare. I can split this to:
 - verify if epirepo is disabled  (apt-cache policy | grep epirepo),
 - verify if all your intended repositories are enabled (apt-cache policy).

Reviewer: sounds good! 👍

`apt-cache policy`

Verify your current Linux kernel version:  

> `uname -r`

Reviewer: Same as above ... why do I verify this? What are desired outputs? How does it influence my upgrade process?

Author: It's not that important.. It's rather **good to know** your current kernel version before an upgrade.

Reviewer: If that does not influence procedure, I would not add it as it just raises a questions. I think that if you want to keep it, maybe add separate section in `#patching-with-package-manager` section with some "pre-upgrade facts collecting".

Author: It's ok for me to remove it.

List available upgrades without installing them:  
`apt-get upgrade -s`

List available security patches:  
`sudo unattended-upgrade -d --dry-run`

Install system security patches:  
`sudo unattended-upgrade -d`

Install all patches and updates with dependencies:  
`sudo apt-get dist-upgrade`

Verify if your system requires a reboot after an upgrade (check if file exists):  

> `cat /var/run/reboot-required`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`test -e /var/run/reboot-required && echo reboot required || echo reboot not required`
```
